This exercise had you consider a company's production function,
the business area in charge of manufacturing of products or delivery of services.
If business's executive leadership wants to understand
aspects of data and data architecture strategy and has
tasked you with identifying the components of
a data architecture that could support
data science initiatives in the production function.
In the pages that follow,
I outline the components of a data architecture
that I would recommend for the business's production function.
Your answers may differ from mine.
What is important is that you address all of
the key aspects of each of the five components.
Because this exercise explicitly focuses on the production function,
our data strategy will start with a focus on manufacturing.
This will require the central collection of
all manufacturing data into a single data warehouse.
ETL will be required from individual test platforms,
machines sensor platforms, and machine monitoring applications.
A relational database in the data warehouse will make the most sense to start,
as this provides a straightforward basis for
providing data to machine learning applications.
Data governance concerns availability, usability,
integrity, and security of data and data systems.
All employees in manufacturing should be given read access to
the data both directly and via platforms such as Looker or Tableau.
Training will be provided on an as-needed basis through online resources.
Comprehensive data dictionaries should guide employees with
regard to what data is available and how it is represented.
The single source of truth data in the warehouse should be supplemented with categories,
tags, and indexes to promote usability.
Checks should be built in the ETL processes to ensure that
data accuracy is maintained as it is moved into the data warehouse.
Tracing steps should be built in so that any process is repeatable,
which will aid root cause analysis when things go wrong.
Employees should be trained with respect to
proper methods for data handling and data storage.
They should maintain all data within the firewall,
except when passed to the machine-learning architecture,
at which point data should be encrypted at rest and in motion.
To support data architecture technology,
we recognize that source data exist throughout the company.
ETL processes should bring that source data into a single source of truth data store.
That data store should be supplemented with tags to increase usability.
Employees will access that data store through a SQL inquiry engine,
either directly or through a business intelligence application such as Mode or Power BI.
The machine learning architecture will communicate with
the data architecture via either API endpoints or direct upload.
With regard to promoting data skills and capacity,
I recommend that the company provide just-in-time training for
employees to develop skills related to data analysis and data science.
The business should promote a culture of data-driven exploration and experimentation,
should publish information about data updates organization-wide,
and should promote and reward examples of employees who undertake data-driven projects.
At the outset, machine learning will be done on
individual computers within the organization's firewall.
This should be sufficient for the proof of concept stage for the first project.
Once greater computing power is needed,
the business can spin up a machine learning architecture in a public cloud environment,
such as Amazon Web Services,
Google Cloud Platform, or Microsoft Azure.
This will allow production quality experimentation,
model training, and model deployment to management.
Applications that rely on machine learning can communicate
with machine learning architecture through API endpoints.